# Description of the Problem 


In recent years, there’s been an increasing rage for mobile trucks and delivery among the Filipino population and  was recently amplified due to the current global health situation. Meals and products on wheels are certainly not new for Filipinos, it’s a common sight to see street food carts on the side of the road, tricycles roaming from one city  to another to sell household products, and mobile markets. Mobile trucks provide the advantage of mobility -- it can move to where the customers are, whether it be residential or business complex. It helps entrepreneurs to reach more customers and thus increase their revenues and provides customers convenience since they no longer need to go out and drive a few kilometers to get what they need. While delivery (such as couriers, food delivery, etc) is completely viable and perhaps more preferable for customers since they can specify their orders, we have to consider the fact that a large part of the population cannot afford it. Based on  Philippine Statistics Authority’s most recent report on Income and Expenditure, the average family monthly income is estimated at Php 22,000 that means the average family daily income is Php 733  or Php 244 per meal since Filipinos eat 3 meals a day. The base rate for delivery fee is Php 50 and all too often the cost of a single order is not less than Php 60. Clearly, mobile trucks have a financial edge over deliveries.

Mobile trucks, as a business entity, also need a thorough spatial analysis to determine the optimal location to park mobile trucks for different time of the day to ensure its success and profitability. Some of the proven, prime, and successful locations for mobile truck business, especially food truck parks, are streets with high population density,  food truck parks, and business districts. In assessing and determining the best location to park a mobile truck, it’s important to know a few location characteristics such as the  location’s population density, list of businesses or food trucks nearby and their offered products, average household income or house prices, and demographics such as the gender, civil status, and age.

In essence, this study aims to help small business owners who are planning to venture on mobile truck business by suggesting possible locations on where to park or roam during rush hours and working hours. 
